= replier (1)
:doctype: manpage

== NAME
replier - automatically respond to messages

== SYNOPSIS 
In +.qmail+:
!!!!
| replier !dir! !address! !prog!
!!!!


== DESCRIPTION 
The +replier+ program changes the working directory to +!dir!+, executes
+!prog!+ with a message on standard input, and forwards the standard output
from +!prog!+ to +!address!+.  It adds a +Mailing-List+ field to the message
headers with the contents of +!dir!/mailinglist+.  It rejects the message if
there is already a +Mailing-List+ field.  It adds to the message all fields
listed in +!dir!/headeradd+, followed by an appropriate +Delivered-To+ line.
It deletes from the message any fields with names listed in
+!dir!/headerremove+.  It performs its header editing on the output from
+!prog!+.

If +!prog!+ exits 0, then +replier+ forwards the message to +!address!+ and
exits{nbsp}99.  If +prog+ exits{nbsp}111, +replier+ exits{nbsp}111.  If +prog+
exits anything else, or does not exist, +replier+ exits{nbsp}0.


The +replier+ program does not distribute bounce messages: if the environment
variable +$SENDER+ is set, and is either empty or +#@[]+, then +replier+
rejects the message.


=== Environment variables
The +replier+ program supplies several environment variables to +prog+.  The
recipient address that caused message processing by +replier+ has one of two
forms: +!inlocal!-!request!@!domain!+, where +!inlocal!+ matches the first
line of +!dir!/inlocal+, or +!request!@!domain!+, when +!dir!/inlocal+ has an
empty first line.  In either case, +replier+ sets the following environment
variables:

*NB*: These environment variables are not quoted.  They are under the control
of the sender.

+$REQUEST+::
The +!request!+ portionh of the recipient address.

+$REQUEST2+::
The portion of +!request!+ in the recipient address that follows the first
hyphen.

+$REQUEST3+::
The portion of +!request!+ in the recipient address that follows the second
hyphen.

+$REQUEST4+::
The portion of +!request!+ in the recipient address that follows the third
hyphen.


== EXIT STATUS 
If it encounters a permanent error in handling a message, +replier+
exits{nbsp}100.  If it encounters a temporary error a message, +replier+
exits{nbsp}111.

== AUTHOR
William Baxter <sst@superscript.com>
